An umbilical hernia occurs when part of your intestines
pushes through an opening or weak spot
in your abdominal muscles near your belly button.
Umbilical hernias are very common
in newborns and infants,
but they can affect adults, too.
Common symptoms for adults
with an umbilical hernia are:
A bulge in the abdomen near the belly button
that increases with coughing or straining.
Pain or pressure at the hernia site.
Increasing or sharp abdominal pain and vomiting
can be a sign of a strangulated hernia,
when the blood supply has been cut off
around the herniated intestine.
This is a serious medical issue
and needs immediate attention.
In adults, the most common causes
of umbilical hernias include:
Chronic straining or heavy lifting,
this increases pressure on the muscles in the abdomen.
Being overweight or obese,
this also increases pressure on the muscles in the abdomen.
Pregnancy, especially multiple pregnancies.
Older age, the muscles often become weaker.
In newborns and infants,
an umbilical hernia may be more obvious
when the infant cries,
causing the belly button to protrude,
or stick out.
This is a classic sign of an umbillical hernia.
When the developing fetus in the womb,
the umbilical cord passes through
an opening in the abdominal wall.
This usually closes soon after birth.
However, the muscles do not always seal completely,
leaving a weak spot through which an
umbilical hernia can push through.
By age 2,
most umbilical hernias will have
closed on their own.
Nearly all umbilical hernias
will have closed without surgery by age 5.
In some cases,
surgery may be needed to
repair an umbilical hernia.
Surgery is more common for adults with
an umbilical hernia.
The surgery may be open or laparoscopic.
If surgery is needed,
and incision, or several small incisions,
are made near the belly button.
The loop of intestine is
placed back into the abdominal cavity,
and the incision closed.
Sometimes a piece of mesh material is used
to help strengthen the area
where the muscles are repaired.
Talk with your doctor
if you have a bulge near your navel.
Seek emergency care
if the bulge becomes painful or tender.